.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.TH TUXPANEL-INSTALLER 1 "March 2026" "tuxpanel-installer 1.0.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tuxpanel-installer \- graphical installer and tray indicator for TuxPanel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tuxpanel-installer
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tuxpanel-installer
is a cross-distribution graphical installer for TuxPanel, a self-hosted
Linux administration dashboard.  It can install, update, or remove TuxPanel
and its optional components (VNC, RDP bridge, desktop environments).
.PP
When TuxPanel is not yet installed, the wizard walks through component
selection, server configuration, and installation.  When TuxPanel is already
present, it opens the component manager for adding or removing features.
.PP
The
.B \-\-tray
mode launches a system tray indicator that monitors service status and
provides quick actions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-install
Force-launch the install wizard even if TuxPanel is already installed.
.TP
.B \-\-manage
Force-open the component manager.
.TP
.B \-\-tray
Start the system tray indicator without showing the wizard.
.TP
.BR \-\-execute " " \fIMANIFEST\fR
(Internal) Execute an install manifest as root.  Used by the GUI via pkexec.
.TP
.B \-\-uninstall
Remove TuxPanel and all managed components.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/tuxpanel/
Application install directory.
.TP
.I /etc/tuxpanel/environment
Environment variables for the systemd service.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/tuxpanel.service
The systemd service unit.
.TP
.I /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/50-tuxpanel.rules
Polkit authorisation rules.
.TP
.I /etc/xdg/autostart/tuxpanel-tray.desktop
Autostart entry for the tray indicator.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Installation failed (see log output).
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/JosephDoesLinux/tux-panel/issues>.
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later
.SH AUTHORS
Joseph Abou Antoun, Merheb Merheb.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR pkexec (1),
.BR journalctl (1)
